Feb 10
0240-0340
1 hr
 Put on my project owner hat and brainstormed ideas for the project. Coordinated with team members for project details such as repository and methods of communication. Added brainstorm ideas to the google sheets project.


Feb 13
1300-1500
2 hrs
 Pair programmed with Cam. Worked on a tutorial for flask to learn python and flask. Put some files up that were from our time together. Learning a new tool was much easier with another person. When another person is there and watching what I do, more consideration is put into what things look like so that I don¡¯t make a fool of myself. This is against the idea of getting it working and refactoring later. This is a lesson I took away from this project. 

Feb 17 
1/2 hour
 Setup files for http-server and phaser.io
 
 
 Feb 18
 1300-1640
 2 2/3 hrs
 Worked on tutorial for phaser.io by myself and then triplet programmed getting mouse-input working for the game.Once again, programming with others helped with the learning process, this time with phaser.io. This was a mixture of pair and triplet programming as there was a split of development in the code and development of images necessary. I think Corey said it best with, ¡°Trio programming proved itself a few times. Not only did we catch errors in each other's code or find solutions for each other's problems, but Duane even spotted errors in the graphics I put together in Paint. I doubt we could get many artist-types to agree to pair painting though.¡± I also learned more about our chosen version control, GIT, as we focused on creating and merging branches properly.

 Feb 25
 2 3/4 hrs
 1500-1745
¡¡¡¡¡¡Triplet programmed and beat our head against a wall as we attempted to get ship rotation working properly and learned that phaser.io doesn¡¯t actually support sprite rotation. We could change the angle of the sprite but that is purely visual and doesn¡¯t change collision boxes. Since ship rotation is vastly important to the execution of an initial ship setup, we felt that it needed to get done. We eventually broke off from this pursuit and moved towards ensuring our master branch was free of development from half finished ideas.This is where triplet programming fell short and, in the future, if I were to pair program and come across an issue that neither of us could solve and if we didn¡¯t have a solution within a half hour, I would table the issue and come back to it after we spent some individual time tackling it. During this programming session we also worked on 

 Feb 27
 1130-1530
 4 hrs
 Made a start button and worked on ship rotation. I gained an increased appreciation for unit tests and languages that compile before runtime. We didn¡¯t have any automatic tests for our GUI and so all implemented features had to be tested by hand. We simulated test driven development by creating an idea of what needed to be done and then implementing that small chunk and testing it. This was excellent for the start button, where I went through the iterative design process of: making the start button appear, placing it properly, making the visual more appealing, making it change depending on validity of ship placement, adding hover response, locking in ship placement, and finally outsourcing development of transparency to another group member.

 2030-2230
 2 hrs
 Ship rotation works. While implementing this, I learned to just write the code quickly and refactor later. At first, I was trying to ensure that I was writing clean code but then when the idea for implementation didn¡¯t pan out, all of that clean code had to be removed. 

0800-0845
3/4 hrs
Improving diary entries, adding final thoughts to slides in preparation for the presentation.